---
title:  "Leigh Sales - On Doubt"
date:   2017-08-27 17:10:00
description: A reflection of an essay
---

On Doubt,

This essay makes the case that doubt is the cause and link between what I thought was two seemingly unrelated phenomena. Self-assurance, and the ability to feel passionately about something.

I had thought once that I couldn't really think of anything that I am truely passionate about. I have things that I love to do in life, and hobbies that I like doing, but 'passionate' had always seemed too strong a description word.

In a conversation with a friend I remember being questioned about what I would put myself out there for, whether it was certain issues I would stand up for or beliefs for which I would speak up and challenge a differing opinion. This was after sitting in at a dinner where there was a 2 hour argument over a simple statement involving a stereotype of women, of which I was mostly an observer.

I wasn't really able to think of anything that I felt unequivocally passionate about - I felt that I would always be able to see two sides of an argument, or understand where each differing opinion or belief is coming from. I feel that I could probably argue equally convincingly about both sides of most major issues.

I am always curious when someone shows great passion or wholehearted belief in something. I just want to know - how can you be so sure?

Leigh Sales's concluding section of her essay says: "It is difficult to be passionate about anything when I question everything". What she is linking is being able to be passionate, and being able to be confident.

Being confident is an essential part of society - whether it is being a politician or public figure, or in my experience being seen as a 'leader' and doing well at work. Being self-assured and confident in the way you interact with others seems to be an important factor in leadership, the ability to motivate others, building trust, and ultimately seems to drive the perception of that you are good at what you do.

Sales talks at length about how self-assurance and being confident in an opinion is increasingly leads to political (strong politicians in driving an agenda) or monetary gain (opinion driven journalism).

Doubt, however human, could prevent you from being 100% confident in something, which may in turn, lead to you not being confident or appearing to be confident, which may in turn make you appear to be incompetent and is seen as a weakness.

To summarise, Leigh Sales makes the case that a doubtful mind comes with two major drawbacks:
- The lack of all-consuming passion
- Anxiety and the lack of confidence

Interesting to think about.
